--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
The Lazy Developer
17
MODULE
Other Add-Ons & Technology 
Partners
Explore additional add-ons, plugins, and technology partnerships to further enhance your 
web app's capabilities.
Table of Contents
01.  Enhancing Y our Web App  (20 min)
02.  User flow analysis.  (22 min)
03.  Crawling other websites.  (22 min)
04.  Code validation to ensure your code works well.  (22 min)
05.  Performance analysis.  (24 min)

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
01.  Enhancing Your Web App 20 min
Enhancing Your Web App with Add-Ons, Plugins & Technology 
Partners
"Think of your web app like a smartphone fresh out of the box. Sure, it makes calls and sends texts, 
but the real magic happens when you start installing apps. Weather, banking, fitness tracking, a spirit 
level you'll use exactly once... each app extends what your phone can do without you having to build 
those features from scratch. Add-ons and integrations work the same way for your web app."
Y ou've built your app. It works. Users can sign up, log in, and do the core thing your app was 
designed to do. But now you're starting to think about the extras. How do I know if people are actually 
using my app? What happens when something breaks at 2 AM? How do I make my images load 
faster? Can I add live chat without building a whole messaging system?
This is where the add-on and plugin ecosystem comes in, and it's genuinely one of the most exciting 
parts of building a modern web app. Instead of spending weeks building an analytics dashboard from 
scratch, you can drop in a tool that's been refined by thousands of developers over years. Let's 
explore what's available and how to make smart decisions about what to add.
Why Add-Ons Matter (And Why You Shouldn't Build Everything Yourself)
There's a temptation, especially when you're learning to build with AI, to think, "I could just ask 
Cursor to build that for me." And sometimes that's the right call. But here's the thing: some problems 
have been solved really well by dedicated companies with entire teams focused on nothing but that 
one problem.
Error tracking is a perfect example. Could you build a basic error logger? Sure. But Sentry has spent 
over a decade building a system that catches errors, groups them intelligently, shows you the exact 
line of code that failed, tells you which users were affected, and alerts you on Slack. Rebuilding that 
would take months.
The golden rule: Build what makes your app unique. Buy (or integrate) everything else.
Here's a quick decision framework:
Question If Yes... If No...
Is this your app's core value? Build it yourself Consider an add-on
Does a mature, affordable tool 
exist?
Use the tool Build it or find an alternative
Will maintaining this distract from 
your product?
Use a tool Build it if it's simple
Do you need it working by next 
week?
Use a tool Y ou might have time to build
Is data privacy a critical concern? Evaluate carefully Standard tools are usually fine

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
The Major Add-On Categories
Let's walk through the main categories of tools you'll likely want to add to your app at some point. 
Think of this as a menu, not a shopping list. Y ou don't need all of these on day one.
Analytics: Understanding Your Users
Analytics tools help you answer the fundamental question: "What are people actually doing in my 
app?" Without analytics, you're flying blind.
Tool Best For Free Tier Integration Style
Google Analytics (GA4) General website traffic, 
SEO insights
Very generous Script tag
Vercel Analytics Performance metrics for 
Vercel-hosted apps
Basic tier free npm package
PostHog Product analytics, feature 
flags, session replay
1M events/mo free npm package or script
Hotjar Heatmaps, session 
recordings, user feedback
Basic free plan Script tag
Mixpanel Event-based product 
analytics, funnels
20M events/mo free npm package or API
For most apps just starting out, Google Analytics plus one product analytics tool (PostHog or Hotjar) 
is a solid combination. Google Analytics tells you about traffic and acquisition (where users come 
from), while product analytics tells you what they do once they're inside your app.
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me add Google Analytics 4 to my React + Vite app. I need it to track 
page views automatically when the route changes, and I want to set up a custom event for when 
a user completes signup."
Error Tracking: Catching Problems Before Users Report Them
Here's a harsh truth: users rarely report bugs. They just leave. Error tracking tools catch exceptions, 
crashes, and unexpected behavior automatically, then alert you so you can fix things before your 
inbox fills with complaints.
Tool Best For Free Tier Key Feature
Sentry Full-stack error tracking 5K errors/mo Stack traces with source 
maps
LogRocket Session replay with error 
context
1K sessions/mo Video replay of user 
sessions
Bugsnag Error monitoring with 
release tracking
7.5K events/mo Release health 
dashboard
Sentry is the industry standard for good reason. It integrates with both React (frontend) and Express 
(backend), giving you a complete picture when something breaks.
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me add Sentry error tracking to my React + Express app. Set it up on 
both the frontend and backend, configure source maps for readable stack traces, and add a test 
button that triggers a sample error so I can verify it's working."

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
Performance: Making Your App Fast
Speed matters more than you think. Google's research shows that 53% of mobile users abandon a 
site that takes more than 3 seconds to load. Performance tools help you identify and fix bottlenecks.
Tool What It Does Integration Style
Cloudflare CDN, DDoS protection, DNS 
management
DNS configuration
Cloudinary Image optimization, 
transformation, CDN delivery
API / SDK
imgix Real-time image processing and 
optimization
URL-based API
Vercel Speed Insights Core Web Vitals monitoring npm package
Cloudflare is practically a must-have for any production app. The free tier gives you a global CDN 
(Content Delivery Network, meaning your app loads from servers close to your users), DDoS 
protection, and SSL certificates. It's one of the best free tools in the entire web ecosystem.
For images specifically, Cloudinary is fantastic. Instead of manually resizing and compressing every 
image, you upload once and Cloudinary serves the perfect size and format automatically based on 
the user's device.
Communication: Talking to Your Users
Live chat widgets, chatbots, and support tools let you communicate with users directly inside your 
app.
Tool Best For Free Tier Notable Feature
Tawk.to Live chat Completely free Unlimited agents
Crisp Chat + shared inbox 2 agents free Built-in chatbot
Intercom Full customer platform No free tier ($$$) AI chatbot, help center
If you're just starting out and want live chat, Tawk.to is hard to beat because it's entirely free with no 
agent limits. Crisp is excellent if you want something a bit more polished with a shared inbox for team 
collaboration. Intercom is the Rolls-Royce of customer communication, but it's priced for funded 
startups and enterprises.
Prompt for Cursor: "Add the Tawk.to live chat widget to my React app. I want it to appear on 
every page except the login and signup pages. Here's my Tawk.to property ID: [YOUR_ID]."
Payments Beyond Stripe
We've covered Stripe in other modules, but it's worth knowing there are alternatives depending on 
your use case.
Tool Best For Fees Key Advantage
Stripe Most SaaS apps, 
subscriptions
2.9% + 30c Best API and docs

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
PayPal International payments, 
older demographics
2.9% + 30c Brand recognition
LemonSqueezy Digital products, handling 
global tax
5% + 50c Merchant of record 
(handles VAT/sales tax)
Paddle SaaS subscriptions with 
tax compliance
5% + 50c Merchant of record
LemonSqueezy and Paddle are especially interesting because they act as your "merchant of record." 
This means they handle all the complicated global tax stuff, VAT collection, invoicing, and 
compliance. If you're selling to customers worldwide and don't want to deal with tax laws in 50 
different countries, these are worth the higher fees.
Email Services
Sending emails from your app (welcome emails, password resets, notifications, marketing) requires a 
dedicated email service.
Tool Best For Free Tier Integration
Brevo (formerly 
Sendinblue)
Transactional + 
marketing emails
300 emails/day SDK / API
SendGrid High-volume 
transactional email
100 emails/day API
Resend Developer-friendly email 
with React templates
3K emails/mo API / SDK
Mailgun Transactional email, 
great deliverability
5K emails/mo for 3 
months
API
Brevo is a great all-rounder because it handles both transactional emails (password resets, order 
confirmations) and marketing emails (newsletters, promotions) from one platform. Resend is newer 
but has a brilliant developer experience, especially if you're using React, because you can write your 
email templates as React components.
How Add-Ons Actually Connect to Your App
There are four main ways tools integrate with your app. Understanding these patterns helps you 
evaluate new tools and know what to expect:
1. Script Tag (Easiest)
Y ou paste a small snippet of JavaScript into your HTML. Google Analytics and most chat widgets 
work this way. The downside is you have less control and it can affect page load speed.
<!-- Example: Adding a script tag -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-XXXXXXXXXX"></
script>
2. npm Package (Most Common for React Apps)
Y ou install a library and import it into your code. This gives you full control and TypeScript support. 
Sentry, PostHog, and Vercel Analytics work this way.
npm install @sentry/react

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
3. REST API (Backend Integration)
Y our server makes HTTP requests to the tool's API. Brevo email sending, Stripe payments, and most 
backend integrations work this way.
// Example: Calling an API from your backend
const response = await fetch('https://api.brevo.com/v3/smtp/email', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: { 'api-key': process.env.BREVO_API_KEY },
  body: JSON.stringify(emailData)
});
4. SDK (Software Development Kit)
A more comprehensive library that wraps API calls in convenient functions. Supabase, Firebase, and 
Stripe all provide SDKs.
// Example: Using Supabase SDK
import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js';
const supabase = createClient(url, key);
A Real-World Integration Walkthrough
Let's say you've built a recipe-sharing app and you want to add three things: error tracking, basic 
analytics, and email notifications when someone comments on a recipe.
Here's how you'd approach it with AI:
Step 1: Error Tracking (Sentry)
Prompt: "Install and configure Sentry for my React frontend and Express backend. Use 
environment variables for the DSN. Set up the React error boundary so unhandled errors get 
captured. Also configure source maps so I can see readable stack traces in production."
Step 2: Analytics (PostHog)
Prompt: "Add PostHog analytics to my React app. I want to automatically track page views, and I 
need custom events for: recipe_created, recipe_liked, comment_posted, and user_signed_up. 
Use environment variables for the PostHog API key."
Step 3: Email Notifications (Brevo)
Prompt: "Set up Brevo email sending in my Express backend. Create a service that sends a 
notification email when someone comments on a user's recipe. Use the Brevo SDK and store 
the API key in an environment variable. Include the commenter's name, the recipe title, and a 
link to view the comment."

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
Notice how each prompt is specific about what you want, mentions the tools you're using, and 
reminds the AI about environment variables. This is the pattern that gets you clean, production-ready 
integrations.
How Many Add-Ons Should You Actually Use?
It's easy to go overboard. Every add-on you install adds complexity, potential security surface area, 
and often cost as you scale. Here's a sensible progression:
MVP / Launch Phase:
• Cloudflare (CDN + security, free)
• Google Analytics (basic traffic insights, free)
• Sentry free tier (error tracking)
• One email service (Brevo or Resend)
Growing Phase (100+ users):
• Add product analytics (PostHog or Hotjar)
• Add live chat (Tawk.to or Crisp)
• Consider image optimization (Cloudinary)
Scaling Phase (1,000+ users):
• Full monitoring stack
• A/B testing tools
• Advanced email workflows
• Performance monitoring (Vercel Speed Insights)
Key Takeaways
• Build what's unique, integrate everything else. Y our time is better spent on features that 
differentiate your app than on rebuilding solved problems.
• Start with the basics: Cloudflare, Google Analytics, Sentry, and an email service cover 80% of 
what most apps need at launch.
• Understand the four integration patterns (script tag, npm package, API, SDK) so you can 
evaluate any new tool quickly.
• Use AI to handle the integration work. Tools like Cursor and Claude Code are excellent at 
setting up third-party integrations because these tools have extensive documentation the AI has 
been trained on.
• Don't install everything at once. Add tools as you actually need them. Every integration adds 
complexity.

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
• Always use environment variables for API keys and configuration. Never hardcode secrets.
• Check the free tier first. Most developer tools offer generous free tiers that will last well beyond 
your MVP phase.
• Read the docs, or better yet, feed them to your AI. When integrating a new tool, paste the 
relevant documentation into your Cursor chat for the best results.

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
02.  User flow analysis. 22 min
User Flow Analysis: Understanding How People Actually Use Your 
App
"Imagine you own a physical shop. Y ou've arranged the shelves beautifully, put the bestsellers right at 
the front, and designed a lovely checkout counter. But then you install a security camera and realise 
something shocking: most customers walk in, turn right, wander around confused for 30 seconds, 
and walk straight back out. They never even see your bestsellers. User flow analysis is that security 
camera for your web app."
Building an app is one thing. Understanding how people actually use it is something else entirely. Y ou 
might assume users follow the logical path you designed: land on the homepage, read about the 
features, sign up, complete onboarding, start using the core feature. But in reality, users are 
unpredictable. They skip steps, get confused, click things you never expected, and abandon the app 
at the strangest moments.
User flow analysis gives you the data to stop guessing and start knowing. And the good news? 
Modern tools make this accessible even if you've never looked at an analytics dashboard before.
What Is a User Flow (And Why Should You Care)?
A user flow is the path a person takes through your app from the moment they arrive to the moment 
they leave (or ideally, the moment they complete the action you designed the app for). Every app has 
a "happy path," which is the ideal journey you want users to take:
Landing Page --> Sign Up --> Onboarding --> Core Action --> Retention Loop
For example, if you built a recipe app:
Homepage --> Browse Recipes --> Sign Up --> Save First Recipe --> Get Weekly Email 
--> Come ...
Or if you built a SaaS tool:
Landing Page --> Free Trial Signup --> Complete Setup --> Use Core Feature --> 
Upgrade to Paid
The problem is that the actual flow usually looks more like this:
Landing Page --> Pricing Page --> Back to Landing --> Sign Up --> Get Confused at 
Onboarding...
User flow analysis helps you identify exactly where people get stuck, confused, or bored, and then fix 
those specific points. It's one of the highest-impact things you can do for your app because even 
small improvements at key drop-off points can dramatically increase the number of people who 
actually use your product.

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
The User Journey Map: Your Starting Framework
Before you plug in any tools, it helps to map out the ideal user journey you want people to follow. This 
gives you a baseline to measure against.
Ask your AI to help:
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me create a user journey map for my [describe app]. I need to map out 
the stages from first visit to becoming a regular user. For each stage, list the page/screen they'd 
see, the action they should take, and what might cause them to drop off."
A good user journey map covers these stages:
Stage Goal Key Metric
Awareness User lands on your site Unique visitors, traffic sources
Activation User signs up or starts trial Signup conversion rate
Onboarding User completes initial setup Onboarding completion rate
Core Action User does the main thing your app 
offers
Feature adoption rate
Retention User comes back and uses it again Day 7 / Day 30 return rate
Revenue User upgrades to paid Free-to-paid conversion rate
Referral User tells others about it Invite rate, shares
This framework (sometimes called "pirate metrics" or AARRR) gives you a structured way to think 
about where users are falling off.
Tools for User Flow Analysis
There's a rich ecosystem of tools available, and many have generous free tiers. Here's how they 
compare:
Tool Best For Free Tier Standout Feature Integration
Hotjar Visual insights 
(heatmaps + 
recordings)
Basic plan free Session recordings 
you can watch
Script tag
PostHog Product analytics + 
feature flags
1M events/mo Open source, self-
hostable
npm package
Google Analytics 4 Traffic analysis + 
conversion funnels
Unlimited (free) Integration with 
Google ecosystem
Script tag
Mixpanel Event-based 
analytics + funnels
20M events/mo Powerful cohort 
analysis
npm / API
Amplitude Product analytics + 
experimentation
50K tracked users/
mo
Behavioral 
cohorting
npm / API
Microsoft Clarity Heatmaps + 
session recordings
Completely free AI-powered session 
insights
Script tag
For most non-coder builders, I'd recommend this combination:

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
• Google Analytics 4 for traffic and acquisition data (where users come from)
• PostHog or Hotjar for product analytics (what users do inside your app)
• Add Mixpanel or Amplitude later if you need deeper funnel analysis
Setting Up Event Tracking (The Foundation of Everything)
Event tracking is how you tell your analytics tool, "Hey, something important just happened." Every 
meaningful action in your app should be tracked as an event.
Common events to track:
Event Name When to Fire Why It Matters
page_view User navigates to a new page Basic engagement metric
signup_started User clicks "Sign Up" button Measures interest
signup_completed User finishes registration Conversion metric
onboarding_step_1 User completes first onboarding 
step
Tracks onboarding progress
onboarding_completed User finishes all onboarding Activation metric
core_action_completed User does the main thing (e.g., 
creates a project)
Value delivery metric
upgrade_clicked User clicks upgrade/pricing Purchase intent
subscription_started User completes payment Revenue metric
Prompt for Cursor: "Add PostHog event tracking to my React app. I need to track these events: 
signup_started, signup_completed, onboarding_step_1 through onboarding_step_3, 
onboarding_completed, first_project_created, and upgrade_clicked. Use the PostHog React 
SDK with the API key stored in an environment variable. Also set up automatic page view 
tracking."
Here's what PostHog event tracking looks like in a React component:
import posthog from 'posthog-js';
// Track when a user completes signup
const handleSignupComplete = (user) => {
  posthog.capture('signup_completed', {
    method: 'email', // or 'google', 'github'
    referral_source: user.referralSource,
  });
};
// Track onboarding progress
const handleOnboardingStep = (stepNumber) => {
  posthog.capture(`onboarding_step_${stepNumber}`, {
    time_since_signup: getTimeSinceSignup(),
  });

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
The key insight here is that you're not just tracking that something happened, but also attaching 
useful properties (like how the user signed up, or how long it took) that help you understand the 
context.
Heatmaps and Session Recordings: Watching Your Users (Ethically)
Heatmaps and session recordings are perhaps the most eye-opening tools available. They show you 
exactly what users are doing on your pages.
Heatmaps aggregate data from many users to show:
• Click maps: Where people are clicking (and where they're clicking but nothing happens)
• Scroll maps: How far down the page people actually scroll (spoiler: often not very far)
• Move maps: Where the cursor hovers (correlates roughly with attention)
Session recordings let you watch individual user sessions as if you were looking over their shoulder. 
Y ou'll see:
• Where they hesitate
• Where they rage-click (clicking the same thing repeatedly because it's not working)
• Where they get confused and backtrack
• The exact moment they give up and leave
Hotjar and Microsoft Clarity both offer session recordings. Clarity is completely free with no session 
limits, making it an excellent starting point.
Prompt for Cursor: "Add Microsoft Clarity to my React app for session recordings and heatmaps. 
Here's my Clarity project ID: [YOUR_ID]. Make sure it only loads in production, not during 
development."
Conversion Funnels: Finding Where Users Drop Off
A conversion funnel visualizes how many users make it from one step to the next. The "funnel" 
metaphor is apt because you always lose people at each step. The goal is to make the funnel as wide 
as possible (lose fewer people).
Here's an example funnel for a SaaS app:
Step Users Drop-off
Visited landing page 1,000 -
Clicked "Sign Up" 120 88% left
Completed registration 80 33% left

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
Started onboarding 60 25% left
Completed onboarding 30 50% left
Used core feature 20 33% left
Returned next week 8 60% left
Looking at this data, two things jump out:
1. 88% of visitors don't even click Sign Up -- your landing page might need work
2. 50% drop off during onboarding -- your onboarding is too long or confusing
These are the kind of insights that transform your app. Without funnel data, you might spend weeks 
polishing a feature that 20 people use, while the real problem is that hundreds of people can't even 
figure out how to get started.
Google Analytics 4, PostHog, and Mixpanel all let you build custom funnels. Set them up for your 
most critical user journeys.
A/B Testing: Letting Data Make Decisions
Once you've identified a drop-off point, A/B testing helps you figure out what fix actually works. 
Instead of guessing whether a blue button or a green button converts better, you show version A to 
half your users and version B to the other half, then measure which performs better.
Common things to A/B test:
• Headline text on your landing page
• Button color, text, and placement
• Length of your signup form (fewer fields vs. more context)
• Onboarding flow (guided tour vs. self-exploration)
• Pricing page layout
PostHog has built-in A/B testing (they call it "Experimentation"), and it integrates directly with their 
analytics. This means you can set up a test and immediately see how it affects your conversion 
funnel.
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me set up an A/B test using PostHog's experimentation feature. I want 
to test two versions of my signup page headline. Version A says 'Start Building Today' and 
version B says 'Create Y our First App in 10 Minutes'. Track which version leads to more 
completed signups."
Identifying and Fixing Drop-Off Points

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
Once you have data flowing, here's a practical process for using it:
Step 1: Build your main funnel (landing page through core action)
Step 2: Identify the biggest drop-off (where are you losing the most people?)
Step 3: Watch session recordings of users who dropped off at that point. Look for patterns:
• Are they confused by the interface?
• Is something not loading or broken?
• Are they distracted by something irrelevant?
• Is the page asking too much of them?
Step 4: Form a hypothesis ("Users drop off at onboarding step 2 because we ask for too much 
information")
Step 5: Make a change and measure (simplify the form, then check if the drop-off rate improves)
Step 6: Repeat (move on to the next biggest drop-off)
This cycle, sometimes called "growth experimentation," is how successful products continuously 
improve. And the best part? Y our AI tools can help at every step.
Prompt for Claude Code or Cursor: "Analyze my PostHog funnel data. Users are dropping off 
45% at the onboarding screen where we ask them to connect their GitHub account. Suggest 3 
alternative approaches that might reduce this drop-off, and help me implement the most 
promising one."
Using Data to Drive Product Decisions
User flow analysis isn't just about fixing bugs or tweaking button colors. It fundamentally changes 
how you make product decisions:
• Feature prioritization: Build features that your most active users actually want, not what you 
think they want
• Removing features: If analytics show nobody uses a feature, remove it. Simpler is better.
• Pricing decisions: If users consistently drop off at the pricing page, your pricing might be too 
high or poorly communicated
• Content strategy: If users who read your onboarding guide retain 3x better, invest in better 
documentation
• Marketing focus: If users from Twitter convert 5x better than users from Facebook ads, redirect 
your marketing budget

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
Privacy and Ethics: Being a Good Data Citizen
Before you go wild with tracking, a few important notes:
• Always have a privacy policy that discloses what you track. Tools like Termly or Iubenda can 
generate one for you.
• Respect cookie consent laws (GDPR in Europe, CCPA in California). PostHog and others have 
consent management built in.
• Don't track personally identifiable information (PII) unless you absolutely need it. Track events 
and behaviors, not personal details.
• Session recordings can capture sensitive data. Configure your tools to mask input fields, 
especially password and payment fields.
• Give users the option to opt out. It's both ethical and increasingly a legal requirement.
Practical Setup: Your First Analytics Stack
Here's a step-by-step plan to get user flow analysis running in your app:
1. Add Google Analytics 4 for basic traffic and acquisition data
2. Add PostHog (or Hotjar) for product analytics and session recordings
3. Define your key events (signup, onboarding steps, core action, upgrade)
4. Build your first funnel (landing page through core action completion)
5. Watch 10 session recordings of users who dropped off at your biggest funnel leak
6. Make one improvement based on what you observed
7. Measure the impact over the next week
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me set up a complete analytics stack for my React app. I need Google 
Analytics 4 for traffic data and PostHog for product analytics. Set up automatic page view 
tracking, identify users after login, and create custom events for my key conversion points: 
signup, onboarding completion, and first project creation."
Key Takeaways
• User flow analysis is your app's security camera. It shows you what users actually do, not what 
you assume they do.
• Map your ideal user journey first, then use analytics to see where reality diverges from the plan.
• Start with event tracking. Every meaningful user action should be captured as an event with 
useful properties.
• Heatmaps and session recordings are the fastest way to understand why users are dropping off, 
not just where.
• Conversion funnels reveal your biggest opportunities. Fix the largest drop-off point first for 
maximum impact.

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
• A/B testing removes guesswork. When you're unsure which approach is better, test both and let 
the data decide.
• Follow the cycle: Identify drop-off, watch recordings, form hypothesis, make change, measure 
impact, repeat.
• Respect user privacy. Disclose your tracking, respect consent laws, mask sensitive inputs, and 
let users opt out.
• Y ou don't need every tool. Google Analytics plus PostHog (or Hotjar) covers most needs. Add 
more tools as you grow.
• AI can help at every step, from setting up tracking code to analyzing the data and suggesting 
improvements.

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
03.  Crawling other websites. 22 min
Crawling Other Websites: Extracting Data From the Web
"Imagine you're a researcher who needs to check the price of a specific product at 50 different stores 
every single day. Y ou could drive to each store, walk in, find the product, write down the price, and 
move on to the next one. Or... you could send a very efficient robot to do it for you in about 3 seconds. 
Web crawling is that robot."
At some point in your app-building journey, you'll probably want to pull data from another website. 
Maybe you want to monitor competitor prices, aggregate news articles, collect public job listings, or 
pull product reviews for analysis. This is called web crawling (or web scraping), and it's one of those 
superpowers that opens up entirely new categories of applications.
But with great power comes great responsibility. Web crawling sits in a fascinating gray area of 
technology, law, and ethics, so we need to cover the rules of the road before we start building 
scrapers.
What's the Difference Between Crawling and Scraping?
People use these terms interchangeably, but there's a subtle distinction:
• Web Crawling is about discovering pages. Think of Google's bots systematically following links 
across the entire internet to find new content. A crawler navigates from page to page.
• Web Scraping is about extracting data from specific pages. Once you've found the page you 
want, scraping pulls out the structured information (prices, titles, dates, etc.).
In practice, most projects involve both: you crawl to find the right pages, then scrape to extract the 
data you need.
The Legal and Ethical Landscape (Read This First)
Before you build anything, you need to understand the rules. Web scraping isn't inherently illegal, but 
it can cross legal lines depending on what you scrape, how you scrape it, and what you do with the 
data.
Things that are generally OK:
• Scraping publicly available data that anyone can see without logging in
• Respecting the website's robots.txt file (more on this below)
• Making requests at a reasonable rate (not hammering the server)
• Scraping for personal research or analysis
Things that can get you in trouble:

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
• Scraping data behind a login wall (especially if you agreed to Terms of Service that prohibit it)
• Ignoring robots.txt restrictions
• Scraping personal data (names, emails, phone numbers) without consent, which can violate 
GDPR and similar privacy laws
• Overloading a website's servers with too many requests (this is essentially a denial-of-service 
attack)
• Scraping copyrighted content and republishing it as your own
• Scraping in violation of a website's Terms of Service when you have an account
Understanding robots.txt
Most websites have a file at yoursite.com/robots.txt that tells automated bots what they're allowed to 
crawl. Here's a real example:
User-agent: *
Allow: /
Disallow: /admin/
Disallow: /private/
Disallow: /api/
Sitemap: https://example.com/sitemap.xml
This says: "Any bot can crawl most of the site, but stay away from /admin/, /private/, and /api/." 
Always check and respect robots.txt before scraping any site.
Prompt for Cursor: "Before I start scraping, help me write a Node.js function that fetches and 
parses a website's robots.txt file to check whether a specific URL path is allowed for scraping."
The Golden Rules of Ethical Scraping
1. Check robots.txt first and respect what it says
2. Read the Terms of Service if you have an account on the site
3. Rate limit your requests (1-2 requests per second maximum, add delays between requests)
4. Identify yourself with a custom User-Agent string so the site owner can contact you if needed
5. Don't scrape personal data without a legitimate legal basis
6. Cache results so you don't scrape the same page repeatedly
7. If an API exists, use it instead. APIs are the "front door" while scraping is climbing through a 
window
The Tools of the Trade
There are several approaches to web scraping, each suited to different situations:

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
Tool Best For Type Difficulty Handles 
JavaScript?
Cheerio + Axios Static HTML pages Node.js library Easy No
Puppeteer JavaScript-heavy 
sites (SPAs)
Headless Chrome Medium Y es
Playwright Cross-browser 
scraping, complex 
sites
Headless browser Medium Y es
Apify Managed scraping 
at scale
Cloud service Easy (but costs $) Y es
Scrapy Large-scale 
crawling projects
Python framework Medium-Hard No (without plugins)
Crawlee Node.js crawling 
framework
Library (by Apify) Medium Y es
When to Use What
Use Cheerio + Axios when:
• The page content is in the HTML source (right-click > View Source shows the data)
• Y ou don't need to click buttons, scroll, or interact with the page
• Y ou want the simplest, fastest solution
Use Puppeteer or Playwright when:
• The content loads dynamically via JavaScript (many modern sites)
• Y ou need to interact with the page (click buttons, fill forms, scroll)
• The site uses client-side rendering (React, Vue, Angular apps)
Use Apify when:
• Y ou need to scrape at scale (thousands of pages)
• Y ou want someone else to handle proxies, rate limiting, and infrastructure
• Y ou don't want to manage servers running headless browsers
Building Your First Scraper: Cheerio + Axios
Let's start with the simplest approach. Cheerio is a library that lets you parse HTML using a syntax 
similar to jQuery (a popular JavaScript library). Axios handles making the HTTP requests.
Prompt for Cursor: "Build a Node.js script using Cheerio and Axios that scrapes product names 
and prices from a public e-commerce page. Save the results to a JSON file. Include error 
handling, respect rate limits with a delay between requests, and add a custom User-Agent 
header."
Here's what the resulting code might look like:

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
import axios from 'axios';
import * as cheerio from 'cheerio';
import fs from 'fs';
interface Product {
  name: string;
  price: string;
  url: string;
}
async function scrapeProducts(url: string): Promise<Product[]> {
  const response = await axios.get(url, {
    headers: {
      'User-Agent': 'MyAppBot/1.0 (contact@myapp.com)',
    },
  });
  const $ = cheerio.load(response.data);
  const products: Product[] = [];
  $('.product-card').each((index, element) => {
    products.push({
      name: $(element).find('.product-title').text().trim(),
      price: $(element).find('.product-price').text().trim(),
      url: $(element).find('a').attr('href') || '',
    });
  });
  return products;
}
// Save results
const products = await scrapeProducts('https://example-shop.com/products');
fs.writeFileSync('products.json', JSON.stringify(products, null, 2));
console.log(`Scraped ${products.length} products`);
The key concepts here:
• axios.get() fetches the page HTML, just like a browser would
• cheerio.load() parses that HTML so you can navigate it
• CSS selectors (.product-card, .product-title) target specific elements, just like CSS styling
• .text().trim() extracts the text content and removes whitespace
Handling Dynamic Content with Puppeteer
Many modern websites use JavaScript to render content. If you "View Source" on the page and the 
data isn't there, but it appears when the page loads in a browser, you need a headless browser.

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
Puppeteer launches a real Chrome browser (without the visible window) and controls it 
programmatically:
import puppeteer from 'puppeteer';
async function scrapeDynamicPage(url: string) {
  const browser = await puppeteer.launch({ headless: true });
  const page = await browser.newPage();
  
  // Set a custom user agent
  await page.setUserAgent('MyAppBot/1.0 (contact@myapp.com)');
  
  // Navigate and wait for content to load
  await page.goto(url, { waitUntil: 'networkidle2' });
  
  // Wait for the specific element to appear
  await page.waitForSelector('.product-list');
  
  // Extract data from the rendered page
  const products = await page.evaluate(() => {
    const items = document.querySelectorAll('.product-card');
    return Array.from(items).map(item => ({
      name: item.querySelector('.title')?.textContent?.trim() || '',
      price: item.querySelector('.price')?.textContent?.trim() || '',
    }));
  });
  
  await browser.close();
  return products;
}
Puppeteer is more powerful but also more resource-intensive. Each scrape launches an actual 
browser instance, which uses significantly more memory and CPU than a simple HTTP request.
Prompt for Cursor: "Help me build a Puppeteer scraper that handles pagination. It should scrape 
all products from an e-commerce site by clicking the 'Next Page' button until there are no more 
pages, collecting data from each page. Add a 2-second delay between pages to be respectful to 
the server."
Handling Pagination
Most real-world scraping involves multiple pages. There are two common patterns:
URL-based pagination (easier):

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
https://example.com/products?page=1
https://example.com/products?page=2
https://example.com/products?page=3
Y ou just loop through the URLs:
const allProducts = [];
for (let page = 1; page <= totalPages; page++) {
  const products = await scrapeProducts(`https://example.com/products?page=${page}
`);  allProducts.push(...products);
  // Be respectful: wait 2 seconds between requests
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000));
}
"Load More" button pagination (needs headless browser):
Some sites use infinite scroll or "Load More" buttons. For these, you need Puppeteer or Playwright to 
click the button and wait for new content to appear.
Storing Scraped Data
Once you've scraped data, you need to store it somewhere useful:
Storage Option Best For Complexity
JSON file Small, one-time scrapes Very simple
CSV file Data you'll open in Excel/Sheets Simple
SQLite database Medium datasets, local analysis Medium
Supabase/PostgreSQL Data your app will use Medium
Google Sheets API Collaborative review of scraped 
data
Medium
For most app-building scenarios, storing directly in your Supabase database makes the most sense 
because your app can then display and use the data immediately.
Prompt for Cursor: "Modify my scraper to store results directly in my Supabase database 
instead of a JSON file. Create a 'scraped_products' table with columns for name, price, 
source_url, and scraped_at timestamp. Use upsert so re-running the scraper updates existing 
products instead of creating duplicates."
Scheduling Scrapers (Cron Jobs)
If you need to scrape regularly (daily price updates, hourly news aggregation), you'll want to schedule 
your scraper to run automatically.

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
Option 1: Simple cron job (for your own server)
A cron job is like setting an alarm clock for your code. On Railway or any Node.js server, you can use 
libraries like node-cron:
import cron from 'node-cron';
// Run every day at 6:00 AM
cron.schedule('0 6 * * *', async () => {
  console.log('Starting daily scrape...');
  await runScraper();
  console.log('Scrape complete!');
});
Option 2: GitHub Actions (free for public repos)
Y ou can set up a GitHub Action that runs your scraper on a schedule and commits the results back to 
your repository.
Option 3: Managed services
Apify and similar platforms handle scheduling, proxies, and scaling for you.
Real-World Use Cases
Here are practical scenarios where non-coders building apps might use web scraping:
Price Monitoring:
Build an app that tracks product prices across multiple retailers and alerts users when something 
drops below their target price.
Content Aggregation:
Create a niche news aggregator that pulls headlines and summaries from multiple sources in your 
industry.
Competitor Analysis:
Monitor competitor websites for new features, pricing changes, or job postings (which can indicate 
what they're building).
Lead Generation:
Scrape business directories (that allow it) to build lists of potential customers for a B2B product.
Research Data Collection:
Gather publicly available data for analysis, like job posting trends, real estate listings, or restaurant 
menus.

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
When to Use an API Instead
Before building a scraper, always check if the website offers an API. APIs are:
• More reliable (they don't break when the site redesigns)
• Faster (you get structured data directly)
• Legal (the site explicitly allows this access)
• Easier to maintain (no CSS selectors to update)
Many services you might think of scraping actually have APIs:
• Twitter/X has an API for tweets
• Reddit has an API for posts and comments
• Amazon has a Product Advertising API
• Google has APIs for Maps, Search, Y ouTube, and more
• Y elp, Glassdoor, LinkedIn all have official APIs (with varying access levels)
Prompt for Cursor: "I want to get restaurant reviews for my app. Before I build a scraper, help me 
research whether the major review platforms (Google, Y elp, TripAdvisor) offer public APIs. 
Compare what data is available through their APIs versus what I'd need to scrape."
Common Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them
Problem Solution
Site blocks your requests Add delays, rotate User-Agents, use proxies
HTML structure changes Use resilient selectors, add error handling, monitor 
for failures
JavaScript-rendered content not appearing Switch from Cheerio to Puppeteer/Playwright
Scraper gets CAPTCHAs Use a managed service like Apify that handles 
CAPTCHAs
Data is inconsistent or messy Add data cleaning/validation step after scraping
Running out of memory (Puppeteer) Close browser instances properly, limit concurrent 
pages
Getting IP banned Implement respectful rate limiting, use proxy rotation
Building a Scraper with AI: A Complete Workflow
Here's how to approach a scraping project using your AI coding tools:
1. Research first: Check for APIs, read the site's Terms of Service and robots.txt
2. Inspect the page: Right-click the data you want, choose "Inspect Element" and take a screenshot
3. Share with your AI: Give Cursor or Claude Code a screenshot of the page and the HTML 
structure

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
4. Start simple: Build a scraper for one page first, get that working perfectly
5. Add pagination: Extend to handle multiple pages
6. Add storage: Save results to your database or file system
7. Add scheduling: If needed, set up automated runs
8. Add monitoring: Log results and alert yourself if the scraper fails
Prompt for Cursor: "I want to build a scraper for [website URL]. Here's a screenshot of the data I 
need. First, check if they have a public API. If not, inspect the page structure and build a Cheerio 
+ Axios scraper that extracts [specific data fields]. Save results to a JSON file and include 
proper error handling, rate limiting (2 seconds between requests), and a custom User-Agent."
Key Takeaways
• Web scraping extracts data from websites automatically, saving you from manual copy-paste 
work across hundreds of pages.
• Always check for an API first. APIs are more reliable, legal, and easier to maintain than scrapers.
• Respect the rules: Check robots.txt, read Terms of Service, rate limit your requests, and never 
scrape personal data without consent.
• Start with Cheerio + Axios for simple static pages. Move to Puppeteer or Playwright when you 
need to handle JavaScript-rendered content.
• Handle pagination from the start, as real-world data almost always spans multiple pages.
• Store data wisely: JSON files for quick experiments, your Supabase database for data your app 
will use.
• Schedule scrapers with cron jobs or managed services for regular data collection.
• Managed services like Apify handle the hard parts (proxies, CAPTCHAs, scaling) if you need to 
scrape at scale.
• AI tools are excellent at writing scrapers. Share a screenshot of the page and describe what 
data you need, and Cursor or Claude Code will generate the extraction code.
• Monitor your scrapers. Websites change their HTML structure regularly, so your scraper will 
need occasional maintenance.

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
04.  Code validation to ensure your code works well. 22 min
Code Validation: Making Sure Your Code Actually Works Well
"Imagine you've just finished writing a 20-page essay with the help of a very talented ghostwriter. The 
ideas are brilliant, the structure makes sense, and the conclusions are compelling. But what if there 
are typos on every page, inconsistent formatting, and one paragraph accidentally contradicts 
another? Y ou'd want someone to proofread it before publishing, right? Code validation is that 
proofreader for your AI-generated code."
Here's something that might surprise you: even the best AI coding tools produce code that has 
issues. Not always bugs that crash your app, but subtle problems. Inconsistent formatting, unused 
variables, functions that could break with unexpected input, missing error handling, or patterns that 
will cause headaches as your project grows. This isn't a criticism of AI. It's just reality. AI generates 
code one piece at a time, and it doesn't always maintain perfect consistency across an entire project.
Code validation is a set of tools and practices that automatically catch these issues before they 
become real problems. Think of it as a safety net that catches mistakes, whether they're made by 
you, your AI assistant, or that version of you who was coding at midnight after too much coffee.
Why Code Quality Matters (Even for AI-Generated Code)
Y ou might wonder: "If my app works, why does code quality matter?" Great question. Here's why:
1. Bugs hide in messy code. When code is inconsistent and poorly structured, bugs find more 
places to hide. Clean code is easier to debug.
2. AI works better with clean code. When you ask Cursor or Claude Code to modify clean, well-
structured code, the results are dramatically better than when the codebase is a mess.
3. Future-you will thank present-you. Coming back to a project after a month? Clean, validated 
code with consistent patterns is infinitely easier to understand.
4. Collaboration becomes possible. If you ever bring on a co-founder, freelancer, or contributor, 
validated code means they can get productive faster.
5. Deployment platforms are pickier. Many hosting services run checks during deployment. Code 
that passes validation locally will deploy more smoothly.
The Code Quality Toolchain: Your Four Guardians
There are four main tools that work together to keep your code clean. Think of them as layers of 
defense:
Tool What It Does Catches Analogy
ESLint Finds problematic 
patterns and potential 
bugs
Unused variables, 
missing dependencies, 
bad practices
Grammar checker
TypeScript Ensures data types are 
correct
Passing a string where a 
number is expected, 
missing properties
Spell checker on steroids

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
Prettier Formats code 
consistently
Inconsistent indentation, 
spacing, line lengths
Auto-formatter
Husky + lint-staged Runs checks before 
every commit
Prevents bad code from 
entering your repository
Bouncer at the door
Let's dive into each one.
ESLint: Your Automated Code Reviewer
ESLint scans your code and flags potential problems. It's like having a senior developer looking over 
your shoulder, but one who never gets tired and checks every single file.
Common things ESLint catches:
• Unused variables: Y ou declared const userName = 'Dave' but never used it anywhere
• Missing dependencies in React hooks: Y our useEffect uses a variable but doesn't list it in the 
dependency array (a very common source of bugs)
• Inconsistent comparisons: Using == instead of === (which can cause subtle type coercion bugs 
in JavaScript)
• Unreachable code: Code that exists after a return statement and will never execute
• Missing key props: React list items without unique key props (causes rendering issues)
Prompt for Cursor: "Set up ESLint in my React + Vite + TypeScript project with the 
recommended rules for React and TypeScript. Include the React Hooks plugin to catch missing 
dependencies in useEffect. Also configure it to work nicely with Prettier so they don't conflict."
Most Vite projects already come with ESLint pre-configured, but it's worth checking that the rules are 
sensible. Here's what a typical ESLint config looks like:
// eslint.config.js (flat config format)
import js from '@eslint/js';
import tseslint from 'typescript-eslint';
import react from 'eslint-plugin-react';
import reactHooks from 'eslint-plugin-react-hooks';
export default [
  js.configs.recommended,
  ...tseslint.configs.recommended,
  {
    plugins: {
      react,
      'react-hooks': reactHooks,
    },
    rules: {
      'react-hooks/rules-of-hooks': 'error',
      'react-hooks/exhaustive-deps': 'warn',
      'no-unused-vars': 'warn',
      'no-console': 'warn',

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
Running ESLint is simple:
# Check all files
npx eslint src/
# Auto-fix what can be fixed automatically
npx eslint src/ --fix
The --fix flag is magical. Many ESLint issues can be fixed automatically, which means you can clean 
up a messy codebase in seconds.
TypeScript: Your Type Safety Net
If you're building with the stack we teach in this course (React + Vite + TypeScript), you already have 
TypeScript. But you might not be getting its full benefits.
TypeScript's job is to make sure data flows through your app correctly. If a function expects a number, 
TypeScript screams at you when you accidentally pass it a string. If an object should have a name 
property, TypeScript won't let you access naem (with a typo).
Strict mode is where TypeScript really shines. By default, TypeScript is relatively lenient. Enabling 
strict mode catches significantly more issues:
// tsconfig.json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "strict": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "noUnusedParameters": true,
    "noFallthroughCasesInSwitch": true
  }
}
What strict mode catches that normal TypeScript doesn't:
Check What It Prevents
strictNullChecks Accessing properties on values that might be null or 
undefined
noImplicitAny Variables without explicit types (forces you to be clear 
about data shapes)
strictFunctionTypes Passing the wrong type of callback function
strictPropertyInitialization Class properties that aren't initialized
Prompt for Cursor: "Enable TypeScript strict mode in my project and fix all the type errors that 
appear. For each error, explain what was wrong and why the fix is important."

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
When you enable strict mode on an existing project, you'll likely get a wave of errors. Don't panic! 
Most are easy fixes, and your AI tools can handle them quickly. The result is a much more robust 
codebase.
Prettier: Consistent Formatting Without Arguments
Prettier is an "opinionated code formatter." Instead of debating whether to use tabs or spaces, single 
quotes or double quotes, trailing commas or not, Prettier makes the decision for you and formats all 
your code consistently.
This might sound trivial, but consistent formatting:
• Makes code easier to read and review
• Eliminates meaningless formatting changes in your Git history
• Ensures AI tools generate code that matches your existing style
• Stops you from wasting mental energy on formatting decisions
// .prettierrc
{
  "semi": true,
  "trailingComma": "es5",
  "singleQuote": true,
  "printWidth": 100,
  "tabWidth": 2
}
Once configured, you can format your entire codebase in one command:
npx prettier --write src/
Prompt for Cursor: "Add Prettier to my project with sensible defaults. Configure it to work 
alongside ESLint without conflicts (install eslint-config-prettier). Set up a format script in 
package.json that formats all TypeScript and TSX files."
Husky + lint-staged: The Bouncer at the Door
Here's where it all comes together. Husky lets you run scripts automatically at certain Git events (like 
before a commit). lint-staged runs your linters only on the files you've changed (so it's fast).
The combination means: every time you try to commit code, ESLint checks for problems and Prettier 
formats your code. If there are errors, the commit is blocked until you fix them.

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
This is incredibly powerful because it means bad code literally cannot enter your repository.
Prompt for Cursor: "Set up Husky and lint-staged in my project. Configure a pre-commit hook 
that runs ESLint and Prettier on all staged TypeScript and TSX files. If ESLint finds errors, the 
commit should be blocked."
Here's what the configuration looks like:
// package.json (partial)
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.{ts,tsx}": [
      "eslint --fix",
      "prettier --write"
    ],
    "*.{json,md,css}": [
      "prettier --write"
    ]
  }
}
Now when you run git commit, the pre-commit hook automatically:
1. Takes your staged files
2. Runs ESLint with auto-fix on TypeScript files
3. Runs Prettier on all matching files
4. If ESLint found unfixable errors, blocks the commit
5. If everything passes, the commit goes through
Testing: Does Your Code Do What You Think It Does?
Linting and formatting catch style issues and potential bugs, but testing verifies that your code 
actually produces the correct results. There are different levels of testing:
Type What It Tests Tools Effort
Unit Tests Individual functions in 
isolation
Vitest, Jest Low
Component Tests React components 
render correctly
React Testing Library Medium
Integration Tests Multiple pieces working 
together
Vitest, Supertest Medium
End-to-End Tests Full user workflows in a 
browser
Playwright, Cypress High
For non-coders building with AI, start with unit tests for your utility functions and component tests for 
your most important React components. Y ou don't need 100% test coverage. Focus on the parts that 
would hurt the most if they broke.

--- PDF PAGE 31 ---
Writing Your First Unit Test
Vitest is the best testing tool for Vite projects because it shares the same configuration:
// src/utils/formatPrice.ts
export function formatPrice(cents: number): string {
  return `$${(cents / 100).toFixed(2)}`;
}
// src/utils/formatPrice.test.ts
import { describe, it, expect } from 'vitest';
import { formatPrice } from './formatPrice';
describe('formatPrice', () => {
  it('formats cents to dollar string', () => {
    expect(formatPrice(1999)).toBe('$19.99');
  });
  it('handles zero', () => {
    expect(formatPrice(0)).toBe('$0.00');
  });
  it('handles single digit cents', () => {
    expect(formatPrice(5)).toBe('$0.05');
  });
});
The pattern is simple: describe groups related tests, it defines a single test case, and expect checks 
that the result matches what you expected.
Prompt for Cursor: "Set up Vitest in my React + Vite project. Write unit tests for all the utility 
functions in my src/lib/ and src/utils/ directories. For each function, test the happy path, edge 
cases, and error cases."
Testing React Components
React Testing Library lets you test components the way users interact with them:
import { render, screen, fireEvent } from '@testing-library/react';
import { LoginButton } from './LoginButton';
it('shows login form when button is clicked', () => {
  render(<LoginButton />);
  fireEvent.click(screen.getByText('Log In'));
  expect(screen.getByLabelText('Email')).toBeInTheDocument();
});
Notice how the test reads almost like English: "Render the LoginButton, click the thing that says 'Log 
In', and check that an Email field appeared." This approach tests behavior rather than 
implementation, which means your tests won't break every time you refactor the component's 

--- PDF PAGE 32 ---
internals.
Reviewing AI-Generated Code (Even Solo Developers Should Do This)
One practice that dramatically improves code quality is actually reviewing what your AI generates 
before accepting it. It's tempting to just click "Accept All" and move on, but spending 30 seconds 
scanning the changes catches a surprising number of issues.
What to look for when reviewing AI output:
• Does it handle errors? What happens if the API call fails? If the user input is empty?
• Are there hardcoded values that should be environment variables or constants?
• Does it match existing patterns in your codebase? (naming conventions, file structure)
• Is it doing more than you asked? AI sometimes over-engineers or adds features you didn't 
request
• Are there security issues? Exposed API keys, SQL injection risks, missing input validation
Prompt for Cursor: "Review the code you just generated and check for: error handling gaps, 
hardcoded values that should be environment variables, security issues, and any deviations 
from the patterns used in the rest of this project."
Asking the AI to review its own output is a surprisingly effective technique. It often catches issues it 
missed on the first pass.
CI/CD: Automated Checks on Every Push
The final level of code validation is Continuous Integration (CI), which runs your checks automatically 
every time you push code to GitHub. GitHub Actions makes this free for public repositories and 
generous for private ones.
A basic CI pipeline runs:
1. Install dependencies
2. Run ESLint
3. Run TypeScript type checking
4. Run your test suite
5. Build the project (catches build errors)
Prompt for Cursor: "Create a GitHub Actions workflow file that runs on every push and pull 
request. It should install dependencies, run ESLint, run TypeScript type checking with tsc --
noEmit, run Vitest, and build the project. If any step fails, the workflow should fail."

--- PDF PAGE 33 ---
Here's what a basic CI workflow looks like:
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
name: CI
on:
  push:
    branches: [main, staging]
  pull_request:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  validate:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 20
          cache: 'npm'
      - run: npm ci
      - run: npm run lint
      - run: npx tsc --noEmit
      - run: npm test
      - run: npm run build
With this in place, you get a green checkmark or red X on every push, giving you confidence that 
your code is solid before deploying.
Putting It All Together: The Complete Setup
Here's the order to set everything up in a new (or existing) project:
1. ESLint (catch potential bugs and bad patterns)
2. Prettier (consistent formatting)
3. eslint-config-prettier (make them play nice together)
4. Husky + lint-staged (block bad commits)
5. Vitest (add tests for critical functions and components)
6. GitHub Actions CI (automate checks on every push)
Prompt for Cursor: "Set up a complete code quality toolchain in my React + Vite + TypeScript 
project. I need ESLint with React and TypeScript plugins, Prettier configured to work alongside 
ESLint, Husky pre-commit hooks with lint-staged, and Vitest for testing. Also create a GitHub 
Actions CI workflow. Give me the step-by-step commands to install everything and the 
configuration files I need."

--- PDF PAGE 34 ---
Key Takeaways
• AI-generated code needs validation just like human-written code. AI is brilliant but not perfect, 
and it doesn't always maintain consistency across a project.
• ESLint catches bugs and bad patterns before they cause problems. Run it with --fix to auto-
resolve many issues.
• TypeScript strict mode is your best friend. It catches entire categories of bugs at development 
time instead of at runtime in front of users.
• Prettier eliminates formatting debates. Configure it once, run it everywhere, never think about 
tabs vs. spaces again.
• Husky + lint-staged prevents bad code from entering your repository. If it can't pass linting, it 
can't be committed.
• Start testing with unit tests for your utility functions. They're easy to write and catch real bugs.
• Always review AI-generated code before accepting. Spend 30 seconds scanning for error 
handling gaps, hardcoded values, and security issues.
• Ask the AI to review its own output. It's surprisingly effective at catching issues on a second 
pass.
• GitHub Actions CI runs your entire validation suite automatically on every push, catching issues 
before deployment.
• Y ou don't need perfection. Even setting up just ESLint and Prettier will significantly improve your 
code quality. Add more tools as your project grows.

--- PDF PAGE 35 ---
05.  Performance analysis. 24 min
Performance Analysis: Making Your App Fast and Keeping Users 
Happy
"Picture this: you walk into a restaurant, sit down, and wait. One minute goes by. Five minutes. Ten 
minutes. Nobody has even brought you a menu. What do you do? Y ou leave. That's exactly what 
happens when your web app is slow. Users don't send you a polite email explaining that your loading 
times are suboptimal. They just close the tab and go somewhere else. Forever."
Performance might not sound as exciting as adding new features, but it's one of the most impactful 
things you can work on. Google's own research shows that when a page load time goes from 1 
second to 3 seconds, the probability of a user bouncing increases by 32%. At 5 seconds, it jumps to 
90%. And it's not just user patience. Google literally uses page speed as a ranking factor for search 
results. Slow site? Lower in Google. Lower in Google? Fewer users. Fewer users? Less revenue. The 
math is brutally simple.
The good news? Performance analysis tools are free, the fixes are often straightforward, and your AI 
coding tools are excellent at implementing optimizations once you know what to fix.
Core Web Vitals: The Numbers Google Cares About
Google has defined three specific metrics called Core Web Vitals that measure real-world user 
experience. These aren't arbitrary. They're based on research into what actually frustrates users.
Metric Full Name What It 
Measures
Good Needs Work Poor
LCP Largest 
Contentful Paint
How quickly the 
main content 
loads
< 2.5s 2.5s - 4s > 4s
INP Interaction to 
Next Paint
How quickly the 
page responds 
to user input
< 200ms 200ms - 500ms > 500ms
CLS Cumulative 
Layout Shift
How much the 
page layout 
shifts 
unexpectedly
< 0.1 0.1 - 0.25 > 0.25
Let's break these down in plain English:
LCP (Largest Contentful Paint): This measures how long it takes for the biggest visible element on 
the page to appear. Usually this is a hero image, a heading, or a large block of text. If your user is 
staring at a blank white screen for 4 seconds, your LCP is terrible.
INP (Interaction to Next Paint): This replaced FID (First Input Delay) in 2024. It measures how quickly 
your app responds when a user clicks a button, types in a field, or interacts with anything. If there's a 
noticeable delay between clicking and something happening, INP is the metric that captures it.
CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift): Have you ever tried to click a button on a webpage, but just as you 
click, an ad loads above it and everything shifts down, and you accidentally click something else? 
That's layout shift, and it's infuriating. CLS measures how much your layout moves around 
unexpectedly during loading.

--- PDF PAGE 36 ---
Lighthouse: Your Free Performance Report Card
The easiest way to start analyzing performance is with Lighthouse, which is built right into Google 
Chrome. No installation needed.
How to run a Lighthouse audit:
1. Open your app in Chrome
2. Right-click anywhere and select "Inspect" (or press F12)
3. Click the "Lighthouse" tab at the top of DevTools
4. Select "Performance" (and optionally Accessibility, SEO, Best Practices)
5. Click "Analyze page load"
6. Wait about 30 seconds for the report
Y ou'll get a score from 0-100 for each category, plus specific recommendations for improvement. A 
score above 90 is considered good. Below 50 needs serious attention.
Important: Always test in an Incognito window with browser extensions disabled. Extensions can 
dramatically affect performance scores and give you misleading results.
Prompt for Cursor: "I ran a Lighthouse audit on my React app and got a performance score of 
62. The main issues are: LCP of 4.2 seconds, large JavaScript bundles (1.8MB total), render-
blocking resources, and unoptimized images. Help me fix each issue systematically, starting 
with the highest-impact improvements."
Lighthouse is great for a quick overview, but it tests under simulated conditions. For real-world 
performance data, you'll want to pair it with field data from tools like Google Search Console or Vercel 
Analytics.
Chrome DevTools Performance Tab: The Deep Dive
For more detailed analysis, the Performance tab in Chrome DevTools lets you record and analyze 
exactly what happens during page load, millisecond by millisecond.
How to use it:
1. Open DevTools (F12)
2. Go to the "Performance" tab
3. Click the record button (circle icon)
4. Reload the page or perform the action you want to analyze
5. Stop the recording
6. Analyze the waterfall chart

--- PDF PAGE 37 ---
The waterfall shows you exactly when each resource loads, which scripts take the longest to execute, 
and where the browser is spending its time. Look for:
• Long tasks (orange/red blocks): JavaScript that blocks the main thread for more than 50ms
• Layout shifts: Visible in the experience section
• Network waterfall: Shows which resources load in what order
This level of detail is usually more than you need as a non-coder, but it's invaluable when you need to 
diagnose a specific performance issue. And you can always screenshot the results and share them 
with your AI.
Prompt for Cursor: "Here's a screenshot of my Chrome DevTools Performance recording. 
There's a long task that takes 800ms during page load. Help me identify what's causing it and 
suggest how to fix it."
Bundle Size: The Silent Performance Killer
One of the most common performance problems in React apps is bundle size. Every npm package 
you install, every component you create, and every image you import gets bundled into JavaScript 
files that the user's browser has to download and parse before your app works.
A good target for your main bundle is under 200KB gzipped. Many React apps ship 1MB+ without 
anyone realizing it.
How to analyze your bundle:
The rollup-plugin-visualizer (for Vite projects) generates a visual treemap of your bundle, showing 
exactly which packages take up the most space:
npm install -D rollup-plugin-visualizer
// vite.config.ts
import { visualizer } from 'rollup-plugin-visualizer';
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react(),
    visualizer({
      open: true,
      gzipSize: true,
      filename: 'bundle-analysis.html',
    }),
  ],
});

--- PDF PAGE 38 ---
Run npm run build and a visual report opens in your browser, showing every dependency as a 
proportionally-sized rectangle. Y ou'll often be shocked to discover that a library you barely use is 
taking up 30% of your bundle.
Prompt for Cursor: "Add the rollup-plugin-visualizer to my Vite config so I can analyze my bundle 
size. After running the build, analyze the results and suggest which packages are the biggest 
and how I can reduce the bundle size. Consider alternatives, tree-shaking, and lazy loading."
The Top Performance Killers (And How to Fix Them)
Here are the most common performance problems and their solutions:
1. Unoptimized Images
Images are often the largest assets on a page. A single unoptimized photo can be 5MB, which is 
larger than your entire JavaScript bundle.
Fixes:
• Use WebP format instead of PNG/JPEG (30-50% smaller files)
• Resize images to the actual display size (don't serve a 4000px image in a 400px container)
• Use responsive images with srcset so mobile users get smaller files
• Lazy load images below the fold (images the user can't see yet)
<!-- Lazy loading with responsive sizing -->
Prompt for Cursor: "Audit all images in my React app. For each image, check if it's optimized 
(WebP format, appropriate dimensions, lazy loaded if below the fold). Create a script that 
converts all PNG/JPEG images to WebP and generates multiple sizes for responsive loading."
2. Too Many (or Too Large) Dependencies
Every npm package you add increases your bundle size. Some common culprits:
Package Bundle Impact Lighter Alternative
moment.js ~300KB date-fns (30KB with tree-shaking) 
or dayjs (2KB)
lodash (full) ~70KB lodash-es (tree-shakeable) or 
native JS methods
Full icon libraries ~500KB+ Import individual icons only
chart.js ~200KB lightweight-charts or SVG-based 
charts
Prompt for Cursor: "Analyze my package.json and identify packages that are large or have 
lighter alternatives. Check if I'm importing full libraries when I could be importing individual 
modules. Suggest specific replacements that would reduce my bundle size."

--- PDF PAGE 39 ---
3. Render-Blocking Scripts and Styles
Scripts in your <head> that don't use async or defer block the page from rendering until they've 
downloaded and executed.
Fixes:
• Add async or defer to third-party scripts
• Load non-critical CSS asynchronously
• Inline critical CSS for above-the-fold content
4. Unnecessary React Re-renders
React re-renders components whenever their state or props change. Unnecessary re-renders waste 
CPU time and make the UI feel sluggish.
Common causes:
• Creating new objects/arrays in render (triggers re-render of children)
• Not memoizing expensive calculations
• Passing inline functions as props
React optimization tools:
// React.memo: Prevents re-render if props haven't changed
const ExpensiveList = React.memo(({ items }) => {
  return items.map(item => <ListItem key={item.id} item={item} />);
});
// useMemo: Caches expensive calculations
const sortedItems = useMemo(() => {
  return items.sort((a, b) => a.name.localeCompare(b.name));
}, [items]);
// useCallback: Caches function references
const handleClick = useCallback((id) => {
  setSelectedId(id);
}, []);
Prompt for Cursor: "Analyze my React components for unnecessary re-renders. Check for: inline 
object/array creation in render, missing React.memo on expensive list components, functions 
that should use useCallback, and calculations that should use useMemo. Show me which 
components re-render most frequently and how to fix them."
Lazy Loading vs Preloading: Know the Difference

--- PDF PAGE 40 ---
Before we get into the code, let’s make sure we understand the concept, because this is one of those 
things that sounds technical but is actually really intuitive.
Imagine you’ve just moved into a new house and you have 50 boxes stacked in the hallway. It’s late, 
you’re tired, and you just need your toothbrush. Do you:
• A) Open every single box right now — unpack your kitchen gadgets, your winter clothes, your 
book collection, your childhood photos — just to find that toothbrush?
• B) Walk over to the box labelled “Toiletries”, open just that one, grab your toothbrush, and deal 
with the rest tomorrow?
Option A is preloading (also called eager loading). Y our app loads everything upfront — every page, 
every component, every image — before the user even needs it. The result? A slow initial load that 
makes users stare at a blank screen.
Option B is lazy loading. Y our app only loads what’s needed right now and fetches the rest on 
demand. The result? A fast initial load and a snappy experience.
Aspect Preloading (Eager) Lazy Loading
Initial load time Slow — everything downloads 
upfront
Fast — only essentials load first
When content loads All at once, before user needs it On demand, when user navigates 
to it
Best for Tiny apps with minimal content Most real-world apps with multiple 
pages
User experience Longer wait upfront, instant after Quick start, brief loads on 
navigation
Analogy Opening all 50 boxes at once Opening boxes as you need them
When is preloading actually useful? In small doses. Y ou might preload the next page a user is likely 
to visit (like preloading page 2 of search results while they read page 1). Some frameworks call this 
prefetching. But loading your entire app upfront? Almost never a good idea.
Now let’s see how to implement lazy loading in React…
Code Splitting and Lazy Loading Routes
Instead of loading your entire app upfront, code splitting breaks it into smaller chunks that load on 
demand. The most impactful place to split is at the route level.

--- PDF PAGE 41 ---
import { lazy, Suspense } from 'react';
// Instead of:
import DashboardPage from './pages/DashboardPage';
import SettingsPage from './pages/SettingsPage';
import AdminPage from './pages/AdminPage';
// Use lazy loading:
const DashboardPage = lazy(() => import('./pages/DashboardPage'));
const SettingsPage = lazy(() => import('./pages/SettingsPage'));
const AdminPage = lazy(() => import('./pages/AdminPage'));
// Wrap in Suspense with a fallback
function App() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<LoadingSpinner />}>
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/dashboard" element={<DashboardPage />} />
        <Route path="/settings" element={<SettingsPage />} />
        <Route path="/admin" element={<AdminPage />} />
      </Routes>
    </Suspense>
  );
}
With this approach, the admin page code is only downloaded when a user actually navigates to /
admin. Users who never visit admin never download that code. This can dramatically reduce your 
initial bundle size.
Prompt for Cursor: "Convert all my page-level route components to use React.lazy() with 
dynamic imports. Add a Suspense boundary with a loading spinner component. Make sure the 
loading spinner matches my app's design."
CDN and Caching: Serving Content from Nearby Servers
A CDN (Content Delivery Network) stores copies of your static files (JavaScript, CSS, images) on 
servers around the world. When a user in Tokyo visits your app, they get files from a server in Tokyo 
instead of your server in Virginia. The result: dramatically faster load times.
If you're using Vercel, you already have a CDN. Vercel automatically serves your static assets from 
their global edge network. Cloudflare adds another layer of caching and protection if you configure it 
as your DNS provider.
Caching tells browsers to store files locally so they don't need to be downloaded again on repeat 
visits. Vite handles this well by default. It adds content hashes to filenames (like main.a1b2c3d4.js), 
which means:

--- PDF PAGE 42 ---
• The browser caches the file indefinitely
• When you deploy new code, the filename changes, so users get the new version
• Unchanged files keep the same name and don't need to be re-downloaded
Database Query Optimization
If your app has a backend, slow database queries can bottleneck your entire app regardless of how 
optimized your frontend is.
Common database performance issues:
• Querying all columns when you only need a few (SELECT * vs SELECT id, name)
• Missing indexes on frequently queried columns
• N+1 queries (loading a list, then making a separate query for each item)
• Not paginating large result sets
Prompt for Cursor: "Analyze the Supabase queries in my Express backend. Check for: queries 
that select all columns when they don't need to, missing pagination on list endpoints, potential 
N+1 query patterns, and suggest database indexes that would improve performance based on 
my query patterns."
A Practical Performance Improvement Workflow
Here's a step-by-step process you can follow:
Step 1: Measure (don't guess)
• Run Lighthouse in an Incognito window
• Note your scores and the specific recommendations
• Run the bundle analyzer to understand your JavaScript size
Step 2: Fix the biggest issues first
• Optimize images (usually the quickest, highest-impact fix)
• Lazy load routes (reduces initial bundle significantly)
• Remove or replace heavy dependencies
Step 3: Measure again
• Run Lighthouse again after each change
• Compare before/after scores
• Check that you haven't broken anything

--- PDF PAGE 43 ---
Step 4: Set up ongoing monitoring
• Add Vercel Analytics or Google PageSpeed Insights to track real-world performance
• Set performance budgets (e.g., "bundle must stay under 200KB gzipped")
• Check performance after every major feature addition
Prompt for Cursor: "Analyze my React app's performance and suggest specific optimizations. 
Start by running the bundle analyzer, check for unoptimized images, identify components that 
should use lazy loading, look for heavy npm packages that have lighter alternatives, and check 
for unnecessary re-renders. Prioritize fixes by impact, starting with the easiest wins."
Performance Budgets: Setting Limits
A performance budget is a set of limits you commit to not exceeding. Examples:
Metric Budget
Total JavaScript (gzipped) < 200 KB
Total page weight < 1 MB
Lighthouse Performance score > 90
LCP < 2.5 seconds
Time to Interactive < 3.5 seconds
Number of HTTP requests < 50
Y ou can configure your build tools to warn you (or fail the build) if you exceed these budgets. This 
prevents performance from slowly degrading as you add features.
Key Takeaways
• Performance directly affects user retention, SEO rankings, and conversion rates. A 1-second 
delay in page load can reduce conversions by 7%.
• Core Web Vitals (LCP , INP , CLS) are the metrics Google uses to measure real user experience. 
Aim for green scores on all three.
• Lighthouse is your free, built-in performance auditor. Run it in Incognito mode after every major 
change. Aim for 90+ on performance.
• Bundle size is the most common performance problem in React apps. Use the bundle visualizer 
to find heavy dependencies and replace them with lighter alternatives.
• Optimize images first. Converting to WebP , resizing appropriately, and lazy loading below-the-
fold images is usually the single highest-impact fix.
• Lazy load routes with React.lazy() and Suspense to reduce your initial bundle size dramatically.
• Use React.memo, useMemo, and useCallback to prevent unnecessary re-renders, but only 
where it actually matters (don't optimize prematurely).

--- PDF PAGE 44 ---
• Code splitting breaks your app into smaller chunks that load on demand, so users only 
download what they need.
• Set performance budgets and monitor them. Performance degrades gradually as features are 
added, so ongoing vigilance is essential.
• AI tools are excellent at performance optimization. Share your Lighthouse results, bundle 
analysis, or DevTools screenshots, and they'll suggest specific, actionable fixes.